>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Let's go next.
So LINQ, Language Integrated Query
is probably one of the defining
features of .NET, this is one of the
features that makes .NET so easy to love.
Somebody asked about JavaScript and
Map, Reduce, Filter.
This is C#'s implementation of that,
so let's talk about it.
Imagine that you have an employee object,
as we have had many times, or
a person object.
And you need to get the names of all the
employees who are earning over $100,000,
and you need to display these
names on the page, sort in order.
So you could do something like this,
where you define a list of employees,
where you get your employees from
your repository, for instance.
And then you start tracking your
highEarners in a separate list, and
you spin through and
you foreach through each of the employees.
And you say if the employee salary
is greater than 100,000, well,
then add them to the highEarners list,
right?
We wanna keep track of them separately.
We're trying to get those,
boss has asked for a report.
And then we wanna sort that list.
So there is a sort function inside
of the list of t construct.
It allows you to sort those two objects,
so that way you're able to say,
how do you want this list to be ordered?
And then you can spin through and
go highEarner in highEarners, and then in
console write name, and then show those
names or print on a report or whatever.
With LINQ, you're able to do
that very naturally using
a very kinda natural syntax.
So this is what LINQ looks like.
You can do the exact same
thing in way less code, but
way clearer in a way that like this,
this is difficult, it's possible,
but it's a little more
difficult to understand.
Whereas this, it's kind of just I can see
where salary is greater than a 100,000.
I want you to order by name, and
I want you to select all of
these elements from this array.
This is really where the rubber meets the
road when it comes to Lambda functions.
The thing that we just talked about.
Lambda functions are used by LINQ as
a way of saying, hey, I need you to give
me a function that tells me whether or
not this salary is over 100,000.
I need you to tell me what
you want me to order by.
So you want me to order by name?
I want you to get it here.
And then I just need the names
of all those employees.
I don't need to know
anything else about them.
I wanna save memory,
I wanna save space on my piece of paper.
So just print the names to console or
print the names to the piece of paper.
That's the only thing that I need.
That's LINQ, it allows you to really
powerfully operate on collections in
a really kind of intuitive way, and
it gets easy as you start typing and
doing it.
I'm gonna talk about one major syntax for
LINQ,
the one that I see in the real world,
which is the Lambda syntax.
There is a different syntax
that looks very similar to SQL.
I will tell you that in practice,
this is never used.
I never see anybody write this like this,
but when LINQ was originally created,
they had a query syntax, God bless
Microsoft's heart, nobody uses it.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: So why did we
talk about all those things ahead of all
of this?
Well, the technologies that make
LINQ possible are generics,
IEnumerable of T, extension methods.
All of these things that you see, those
don't exist on those collections, they're
extension methods on those collection
types, right, and Lambda expressions.
So we've kind of combined all of that
in order to access our collections and
transform them and do things with them,
in a really powerful way.
So one kind of interesting property of
LINQ is we talked about, remember how I
said you need to put a pin in IEnumerable,
and how they're lazily evaluated.
One of the cool things about LINQ and
one of the slightly confusing things
about LINQ is that when you
declare this highEarners.
At no point until you start assessing
members of this collection do
these methods actually go through and
actually start comparing salaries and
ordering by name.
Which is a little different.
When you do map, or reduce,
or filter in JavaScript,
those operations happen immediately,
right?
In C#, that's not the case, it returns,
it's what's called lazily evaluated.
So when you declare it at that point,
you're not enumerating through it.
Only when you actually start spinning
through it, do you actually start
accessing and do all of these things start
running, which is really interesting.
It's a small kind of
important property to know,
it's something to put in
the back of your head.
As you're going through your C# journey,
you'll experience situations
where you become very aware of this,
but going on it's important to know it.
I mentioned to ToList and ToArray,
that's the easiest way to take a lazy
evaluation and kick it into high gear.
It's called eagerly
evaluated at that point.
And that's typically what developers use
to quote unquote, materialize a list.
It will actually go through and
run those where and select methods.
I already talked about query
syntax versus Lambda syntax and
that we're gonna focus on using
Lambda syntax exclusively.
I am going to combine as many
of these sections as I can and
just kind of show some code
examples of using LINQ and
things that I think you need to
look out for when you're using it.